So let's take a look at the actual
sites that we're going to use today.
So we have a core site,
that front end masters,
that learn with Jason.dev/
intermediate Gatsby,
that is going to contain all of the
lessons that we're going to work on today.
And then the source code for the project
we're going to use today, is on GitHub,
at j link stuff/ front end masters
intermediate Gatsby project.
We are going to fork that repo ,so
that you can deploy it later on.
So in fact, why don't we just
jump right into that right?
So, the first thing that we're gonna
do is let's make sure that we have
all the requisite pieces.
So you're gonna need
a GitHub account today, so
make sure that you are on GitHub,
and that you have an account.
We are also going to be
deploying to Netlify.
So if you don't have a netlify account,
you can sign in just or sign up for one,
you sign up with your GitHub account so
it takes a couple seconds.
We are going to be using the GitHub CLI,
which I absolutely love is a tool.
It's, made my life as a maintainer,
so much easier.
So instead of having to
remember all the Git commands,
I can just do like gh, repo clone,
and then I get the repo that I want.
I don't have to type out the github.com or
any of those github things,
none of that, it's all gone.
It's really powerful,
we're gonna be using that.
We're also gonna use the Netlify CLI.
And the Netlify CLI today, is
significantly more important than it was
on the Gatsby intro, because we're
gonna use it for local development.
It gives us the ability to run them on
a reboot, to manage environment variables,
it runs our serverless functions for us.
There's a lot that it's doing ,that
just makes local development easier, so
I'm going to be relying on that.
If you don't have that you can
install it with npm install-G.
Netlify CLI ,and just get the latest,
I'll go ahead and run right now,
danger zone to instal something
fresh like right before we start.
So the version that we are gonna
be using today is let's see,
I've got, Netlify 6.3.4,
GitHub version 1.2.1.
We're using, let's get the repo forked and
then we'll we'll get everything else.
Once you've got both of those,
you can do GitHub auth log in, and
it'll, log you into the account
that you want to be logged into.
So, I'm already logged in, so
I'm not going to re authenticate.
And then netlify the same thing,
netlify login, and
it will say that I'm already logged in.
So in your case, it'll bounce you out,
you do the OAuth and
then you'll be ready to rock and roll.
We're also gonna be using yarn today, so
if you don't have yarn which you can check
by typing which yarn, and
I'm using like the old version of yarn.
So, don't worry about having
like yarn 2 or yarn 3 or
anything, you can use yarn 1, it's fine.
That is gonna be used for
running the mono repo.
So yarn workspaces are a really
nice way to do mono repos.
And I'll show you how it works,
it's It's really nice.
Okay, so the first thing that we're gonna
do is, I already have this clone, but for
everybody else create a fork of the repo.
So gh repo fork, and
then you can just type jleng storf,
front end,
masters intermediate Gatsby project.
And by running this command,
you will create a fork of
the repo on your own account.
You're gonna need that fork In order to
deploy, so, if you don't want to fork,
you can also like clone the repo,
delete the dot Git folder.
And then like initialize your own version,
whatever you want to do,
that's it's up to you.
But this if you want to deploy later,
you are gonna need a GitHub repo,
or Bitbucket or
Git lab that you can deploy from.
But I already have it, so
let's take a look at what's in the folder.
We have just some starter files here.
So the first thing is
we've got our README,
that's just bare bones
details about the repo.
We have a gatsby config,
if we look in this gatsby config,
there's actually nothing in it yet.
Package json, we'll look at that in
a second, we've got some json data.
So authors and books, that's some data
that we're gonna work with a little bit
later on, but I didn't want
everybody to have to type it out.
So we just put that right in the repo, and
then an index.js ,so let's take
a look at what these look like.
So our gatsby-config is
exporting an empty object.
Our package.json has the bare minimum
dependencies, gatsby react and
react-dom, those are what required for
building a Gatsby site.
These are the three that you have to have.
I set up the scripts that we need,
so we've got the develop command,
which is the one that runs Gatsby locally.
Start as an alias for that, build,
we'll build the site it'll make it into
an actual static site, this publishable.
Serve lets you take a look locally at
what the published site will look like.
So it's a way to take a look at your
build site, on your local machine.
And clean will delete the cache,
and public folders and
kind of set you back to
a freshly installed or
freshly built state where there's
like no cache or anything.
Try not to use this feature, like the only
time that it really makes sense to use
this feature, is if you're getting
behavior that doesn't make any sense.
Or if you're working with the schema, and
you're doing schema customizations, and
you're noticing that like, why is it
giving me an error that files there?
That's when it makes
sense to do Gatsby clean,
don't use it as your,
turn it off and turn it on.
Again, most of the time Gatsby clean
is just gonna make your build slower.
They do a lot of work to make the cache
resilient, and to recover it.
And keeping that cache makes your local
and production builds much faster.
So, Gatsby clean is a last resort.
All right, then,
we've got you can see an end vmrc here,
so I'm going to just run NVM Install.
And it's going to pick up that nvmrc, and
it'll show that we're
using version 16.6.1 now.
And with that, I think we're ready to go.